edX is a program started in 2012 by Harvard and MIT, which offers high quality online courses from well-known universities and institutions.  Georgetown University is one of those institutions.  Starting in 2013, Georgetown’s Center of New Designs in Learning and Scholarships (CNDLS) started to create and maintain the content for the website.  Currently, there are eight courses on the GeorgetownX site, all representative of the Georgetown identity. 

edX collects data on all logged events from students, although most of the content is built around online video, mainly on YouTube.  This data includes video viewership, click time, and click type.  CNDLS has been downloading this data from the edX server, but it has not been actively analyzing the data.   The office would like to know what the video clicks mean, what patterns are occurring, and what is really going on when a student sits down to watch a video.  Also the professors want to know what their students are doing in each module.

For the purpose of this capstone, the team analyzed the click data of edX’s online video content, looking for patterns in the data.  The team’s original hypothesis was that a student’s viewing pattern is correlated to whether a student will complete a course or not.  If proven true, it would mean that there is a distinct viewing pattern for students not completing a course and for students who complete a course.  This pattern may emerge from the beginning of a course or it could emerge  shortly before a student drops out. 

For students in the middle of taking a course, we want to predict whether they will complete the course and intervene when the chances of a student dropping out breached a threshold of concern. 
